Use Tickets tutorial improvements and additions (#3657)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: docs/tutorials/best-practices/transaction-sending/use-tickets.md

---
# Use Tickets

[Tickets](../../../concepts/accounts/tickets.md) let you reserve Sequence numbers in advance so you can send transactions out of order. This is useful when collecting signatures on multi-signed transactions while normal account activity continues, or queuing transactions for later submission.

This tutorial walks through creating a batch of Tickets, using one in a transaction, and applying the same pattern to multi-signed workflows.

{% amendment-disclaimer name="TicketBatch" /%}

## Goals

By the end of this tutorial, you will be able to:

- Create Tickets to reserve Sequence numbers for future use.
- Use a Ticket to send a transaction outside the normal Sequence order.

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you need:

- A basic understanding of the XRP Ledger.
- A basic understanding of how [Sequence numbers](../../../references/protocol/data-types/basic-data-types.md#account-sequence) work in transactions.
- An XRP Ledger [client library](../../../references/client-libraries.md) set up.
- (Optional) A basic understanding of [multi-signing](../../../concepts/accounts/multi-signing.md), if you plan to combine it with Tickets.

## Source Code

> You can find the complete source code for this tutorial's examples in the [code samples section of this website's repository](https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/tree/master/_code-samples/use-tickets/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the complete source code for this tutorial's examples in the {% repo-link path="_code-samples/use-tickets/" %}code samples section of this website's repository{% /repo-link %}.

```

### 3. Create Tickets

Send a [TicketCreate transaction][] and set the `TicketCount` field to the number of Tickets you want to create (up to 250 per account). Each new Ticket reserves a future [Sequence Number][] you can use later. Each Ticket also counts toward your account's [owner reserve](../../../concepts/accounts/reserves.md), which is released when the Ticket is used. Tickets stay reserved on the ledger until you consume them, regardless of any other transactions your account sends.

Submit the transaction and wait for validation. For example, to create 10 Tickets:

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="JavaScript" %}
{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/use-tickets/js/use-tickets.js" from="// Create Tickets" before="// Check Available Tickets" language="js" /%}
{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Python" %}
{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/use-tickets/py/use-tickets.py" from="# Create Tickets" before="# Check Available Tickets" language="py" /%}
{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Go" %}
{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/use-tickets/go/main.go" from="// Create Tickets" before="// Check Available Tickets" language="go" /%}
{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

{% admonition type="info" name="Note" %}

> A transaction is not final until it is validated by [consensus](../../../concepts/consensus-protocol/index.md), which typically occurs 4-7 seconds after submission. The submit-and-wait call above (`submitAndWait` in xrpl.js, `submit_and_wait` in xrpl-py, `SubmitTxAndWait` in xrpl-go) blocks until validation completes, so the validated result is already available.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to add the language-specific functions/methods in parenthesis  as these are shown directly above the note anyway. "The submit-and-wait call above..." is clear enough.

{% admonition type="info" name="The Ticket pattern" %}
For any transaction that uses a Ticket, set the `Sequence` field to `0` and include a `TicketSequence` field with one of your available Ticket Sequence numbers.
{% /admonition %}

The following example uses an [AccountSet transaction][] with no fields set, making it a no-op that requires no setup. Ticketed transactions go through the same [consensus](../../../concepts/consensus-protocol/index.md) process as Sequenced transactions.

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="JavaScript" %}
{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/use-tickets/js/use-tickets.js" from="// Use a Ticket" language="js" /%}
{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Python" %}
{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/use-tickets/py/use-tickets.py" from="# Use a Ticket" language="py" /%}
{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Go" %}
{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/use-tickets/go/main.go" from="// Use a Ticket" language="go" /%}
{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

> After the transaction is validated, the Ticket is consumed and removed from the ledger. To verify, re-run step 4, and the Ticket you used should no longer appear in the result.

Reviewer: nit: I would lean towards adding this part to the code as the last bit of validation to confirm the ticket does not appear in the result (even if it's essentially the same snippet as step 4).
